# [Development of an IoT-Based Sleep Apnea Monitoring System for Healthcare Applications](https://www.hindawi.com/journals/cmmm/2021/7152576/)
**Abstract**<br>
Sleep is an essential and vital element of a person’s life and health that helps to refresh and recharge the mind and body of a person. The quality of sleep is very important in every person’s lifestyle, removing various diseases. Bad sleep is a big problem for a lot of people for a very long time. People suffering from various diseases are dealing with various sleeping disorders, commonly known as sleep apnea. A lot of people die during sleep because of uneven body changes in the body during sleep. On that note, a system to monitor sleep is very important. Most of the previous systems to monitor sleeping problems cannot deal with the real time sleeping problem, generating data after a certain period of sleep. Real-time monitoring of sleep is the key to detecting sleep apnea. To solve this problem, an Internet of Things- (IoT-) based real-time sleep apnea monitoring system has been developed. It will allow the user to measure different indexes of sleep and will notify them through a mobile application when anything odd occurs. The system contains various sensors to measure the electrocardiogram (ECG), heart rate, pulse rate, skin response, and SpO2 of any person during the entire sleeping period. This research is very useful as it can measure the indexes of sleep without disturbing the person and can also show it in the mobile application simultaneously with the help of a Bluetooth module. The system has been developed in such a way that it can be used by every kind of person. Multiple analog sensors are used with the Arduino UNO to measure different parameters of the sleep factor. The system was examined and tested on different people’s bodies. To analyze and detect sleep apnea in real-time, the system monitors several people during the sleeping period. The results are displayed on the monitor of the Arduino boards and in the mobile application. The analysis of the achieved data can detect sleep apnea in some of the people that the system monitored, and it can also display the reason why sleep apnea happens. This research also analyzes the people who are not in the danger of sleeping problems by the achieved data. This paper will help everyone learn about sleep apnea and will help people detect it and take the necessary steps to prevent it.
